let's imagine for a moment that someone
divides by zero at the Large Hadron
Collider and time travel actually
becomes a reality
well actually already is a reality see
the theory of special relativity showed
us the time can actually be moving at
different speeds
for two different people depending on
where they are in the universe the crazy
I know but this is science and this
is all thanks to gravity so one way to
do this would be to build an enormous
leaf a spaceship and approach the speed
of light and you will find the closer
you get to the speed of light the faster
the universe ages outside of your
spaceship very simply this is why let's
take this graph the y axis is time
passed and the axis distance covered now
to begin with with stationary but the
faster you get the more distance you
cover so you begin to ascend slower on
the y axis the faster you cover distance
the slower time passes for you the line
can't be split in two it can only cover
one more than the other believe it or
not we know this happens now GPR
satellites are actually programmed to
allow for a slight discrepancy in the
passage of time since they're effective
less by the gravity of the earth than we
are and so relatively experienced time
at the faster rate crazy so one
time machine may not be a time machine
at all but a spaceship traveling very
very fast this could also be done on
earth if we have the technology to
create gravitational distortions but
that's some equally crazy this is
all well and good but if you traveled a
few thousand years into your own future
and didn't like what you saw you
wouldn't actually be able to get back
well one way of doing this might be a
wormhole wormholes were originally
conceived by Einstein and Rosen and a
paper famously entitled but hell are
balls to the walls awesome
conjecture supposedly because upon
realizing the two distant points in
space could be folded together
Einstein proclaimed that is how the
Bulls thought awesome it's like
this let's imagine the point a is in the
Crab Nebula and this over here is
refrance and then we want to travel
between the two without the several
thousand years of waiting so what we do
is using a huge amount of energy we make
a fold in space linking the two together
until we have a bridge between the two
points and travel through it's a
shortcut in space however if you could
anchor one under the wormhole in the
present and somehow put the other end in
a spaceship from earlier accelerates it
to the speed of light and give it a
while you could conceivably step through
into the future and return to your own
time whenever you wanted now the
standard Hollywood idea is this you a
disembodied British narrator decide the
perhaps you should have gotten a job in
your 18 instead
years getting a liberal arts degree that
no one even seems to care about
anyway despite his merit and worth
compared to media study plans go back in
time and change history you step into a
time machine
travelled about five years into the past
and successfully managed to convince
your past self to go get a job instead
thus sending the timeline off in a
different direction and great all's well
and the credits come out etc but there's
a problem see you've just changed the
course of history and while that may be
advantageous to your past self you know
originated from a timeline that no
longer exists one possibility is that
you cease to exist now meaning you never
actually got to experience the rewards
of your efforts in the first place all
this might happen
instead of that initial divergence the
previous timeline you came from still
exists the difference is that the moment
you travel back in time the universe
split itself in two and allowed few
actions in the first universe for all
intensive purposes you vanished without
a trace
and no longer exists but then the other
universe you came back and initiated a
new set of events now two universes
exist running parallel side-by-side the
reason Hollywood almost never follows
this line of reasoning is because it
would make a film another reason is
that is sort of logically impossible if
you had gone back in time and changed
whatever it was in their life presumably
you already would have done it meaning
you didn't need to do in the first place
right cook it well here's another wait
situation
I call these a causal loops imagine one
day someone anonymously leaves the
winning lottery numbers on your doorstep
and instead of checking so take it on
the night of the draw you go to a party
instead next week you realize your error
and God and other stupid it's too late
but oh wait I've got this time machine
kicking around in the spare bedroom I'll
just take the ticket back a few weeks
and give it to myself so you travel back
a few weeks only to find that no one is
in the house so instead being sure that
your past self won't miss the hid you
leave the lottery ticket on the doorstep
so that when your past self comes home
he finds it there picks it up and
promptly forgets about for a week until
he realizes it is forgotten how things
are but I've got that spare time machine
kicking around in this bad bedroom and
the loop goes on forever
and where did the lottery ticket come
from originally man and I like this idea
because the possibilities are almost
limitless what if in a few hundred years
some intrepid scientist creates a
supernova powered time machine and just
wish it's and giggles decides to take it
back 13.7 billion years ago back to the
beginning of time itself when witness
the Big Bang but when he gets there
there's nothing at all
no energy nada completely I'm relatedly
something goes terribly wrong with the
machine and is about to explode in the
last moments of his life he realizes
well hot damn this machine is the cause
of the explosion I came to look at and
the scientist says let there be light
and there is light there is another way
to approach this see one interpretation
of quantum mechanics posits that many
worlds exist parallel and simultaneous
to ours while depending on just how
varied these worlds are you may not have
to time travel at all see if there's an
arrow on infinity of parallel worlds and
almost any configuration of events that
you can think of exists in at least one
of them so it becomes a matter of
finding which one it is and stepping
into that one of those universes for
example is slightly further back in time
than this universe but an exact copy so
stepping into it announce the time
travel we haven't actually travelled in
time at all a lot of people ask if time
travel has come around in the future
where are all the time tourists today
and I say we might be the temporal
equivalent of North Korea kind of
interesting but up enough to
avoid if you think you've gone all day